[Doc] Modify SECURITY.md nested dependency fix and add backport process (#3497)
opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards: SECURITY.md

## Reporting a Vulnerability

If you discover a potential security issue in this project we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/) or directly via email to aws-security@amazon.com. Please do **not** create a public GitHub issue.

> 

Reviewer: Let's add a header to separate Reporting from Fixing

```suggestion
## Fixing a Vulnerability

```

> - For direct dependencies - After identifying a version of the package that is both compatible with OpenSearch Dashboards and includes a fix for the vulnerability, update the dependency in `package.json` and run `yarn osd bootstrap` to build the project and update the `yarn.lock` file.

Reviewer: We can clarify what counts as a direct dependency:
```suggestion
- For direct dependencies (listed explicitly in `package.json`) - After identifying a version of the package that is both compatible with OpenSearch Dashboards and includes a fix for the vulnerability, update the dependency in `package.json` and run `yarn osd bootstrap` to build the project and update the `yarn.lock` file.
```

> that is both compatible with OpenSearch Dashboards

Do we want to clarify more guidance on how to pick a version? For changes to `main`, major version upgrades are welcome, but may require migrations of deprecated methods and APIs. Otherwise, you can look for the latest version that works out of the box.

Author: Let me think about it. Maybe not i this PR. Because it could be complex, major version upgrades could also be not in main.

- For nested dependencies (sub-dependencies)

>     - If the package range is suitable but `yarn.lock` does not include the desired version, edit the `yarn.lock` file and remove the lines corresponding to the package. Then, run `yarn osd bootstrap` to have the latest version of the package, that satisfies the range from `package.json`, added to `yarn.lock`.

Reviewer: > If the package range is suitable

Add instructions on how to determine?

Author: will add instructions.

    ```
    Example: If foobar@1.x exists for subdeps in yarn.lock file. But foobar@1.y is the target version.

    Step 1: remove the entry from lockfile and bootstrap; if a suitable version was installed, you can stop.
    Step 2: use resolutions to require a specific range for the nested dependency in package.json:
    'resolutions': { "**/foobar": "^1.y",
                     "**/foo": "^2.x" ,
                     "**/bar": "^3.k"}
    Step 3: repeat step 1

    ```

    Please be aware of that fixing nested dependencies can be tricky. Sometimes, bumping a parent package of the nested dependency can upgrade several of the nested dependencies at once to solve multiple security vulnerabilities and provide a more maintainable code base.

> - To backport a pull request for a CVE fix to previous versions of OpenSearch Dashboards, add the desired backport labels (ex: `backport 1.x`) to the PR. When the PR is merged, a workflow will attempt to backport the PR. If this backporting attempt fail, the PR will be updated with comments about the failure; follow the instructions in those comments to manually backport your changes which you can then use in a new PR. Here are some steps for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To backport a pull request for a CVE fix to previous versions of OpenSearch Dashboards, add the desired backport labels (ex: `backport 1.x`) to the PR. When the PR is merged, a workflow will attempt to backport the PR. If this backporting attempt fails, the PR will be updated with a comment about the failure. Follow the instructions provided to manually backport your changes in a new PR. Here are some steps for reference:
```

We also probably need some links to our maintainer/backporting processes more generally. And to note that some CVEs will require manual resolution on each branch - maybe a major version bump on `main`, a smaller version bump on `2.x`, and a resolution on `1.x`, for example.

Author: will fix

>     - Identify the pull request you want to backport and the target backport version.

Reviewer: Nit - for steps in a sequence, ordered/numbered list is better.

Author: will change

    - Create a new local branch from the target version.
    - Cherry-pick the changes from the pull request into the new branch. To do this, you can use the `git cherry-pick` command followed by the hash of the pull request commit. For example: `git cherry-pick 123456`.
    - Resolve any conflicts. This step may require some manual intervention.

>     - Test the changes thoroughly.

Reviewer: This is missing an explicit step to run `yarn osd bootstrap`. Because `yarn.lock` is intended to always be a generated file, this helps catch bad merges or conflict resolutions.

Author: will add

    - Push the new branch to the appropriate remote repository.
    - Submit a new pull request to the target version for the backported changes.

    ```
       Example: backport a pull request with hash 123 in main to 1.3

       1. Fetch the latest changes from upstream or whatever you name the remote upstream repo:
       git pull upstream

       2. Create a new local branch from the target version:
       git checkout -b backport-cve upstream/1.3

       3. Cherry pick the changes:
       git cherry-pick 123

       4. Resolve any conflicts.

       5. Push to your origin forked repo:
       git push -u origin backport-cve

       6. Submit a new pull request to 1.3.

    ```

    It's worth noting that backporting a pull request can be a complex process and depending on the changes involved, additional steps might be required to resolve conflicts. It's important to carefully review and test the changes to ensure they are compatible with the version of OpenSearch Dashboards in the target branch and that the changes are applied correctly.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: will remove

## Reporting a Vulnerability

If you discover a potential security issue in this project we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/) or directly via email to aws-security@amazon.com. Please do **not** create a public GitHub issue.

> ## Fixing a Vulnerability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fixing a Vulnerability

```

## Reporting a Vulnerability

> If you discover a potential security issue in this project we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/) or directly via email to aws-security@amazon.com. Please do **not** create a public GitHub issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you discover a potential security issue in this project, we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via the [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/) or directly, via email, to aws-security@amazon.com. Please do **not** create a public GitHub issue.
```

Author: I think this paragraph is using a standard template for all repos. For example, here is the SECURITY.md from OpenSearch: https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/blob/main/SECURITY.md

Reviewer 2: I am not sure where they got that but the grammar errors are bad.

Reviewer 3: Except for the missing comma after the first subordinate clause, the other suggestions are less black and white... and I wouldn't classify any of them as "bad grammar", but I'm not a native speaker so what do I know :)

@AMoo-Miki: If you feel strongly about the way the paragraph is stated, I'd recommend opening up a PR against the one @ananzh links above, so that we can all benefit from this feedback.

> - For direct dependency - There are two ways to update. First one is update the package version directly in the package.json then run ```yarn osd bootstrap```.  Second way is to use ```yarn upgrade package``` to update the package. In order to enforce as sub-deps please add nested-dep step2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For direct dependencies - After identifying a version of the package that is both compatible with OpenSearch Dashboards and includes a fix for the vulnerability, update the dependency in `package.json` and run `yarn osd bootstrap` to build the project and update the lockfile. You can also use `yarn upgrade <package>@<version>` to update the package.
```

Reviewer 2: `yarn upgrade` should not be an options because it performs an `install` which we don't want; `yarn osd bootstrap` is the correct way of installing the deps.

Author: Yeah this part is from an old PR but I agree with you. I will update it.

> 
> ```
> Example: We have a vulnerable packagefoobar@1.x and 1.y is the fix.
> 
> option-1: update foobar from @1.x to @1.y in package.json and run yarn osd bootstrap.
> 
> option-2: run yarn upgrade foobar@1.y to update the package.json and yarn install to update the yarn.lock file.
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
This is not needed.

Author: will delete it.

> - For nested dependency/sub-deps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For nested dependencies (sub-dependencies)
```

Author: will change

>     - If package.json is correct but yarn.lock does not fetch the lastest version, could remove package in yarn.lock and run `yarn osd bootstrap`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If the range mentioned for the package in `package.json` is suitable but `yarn.lock` does not include the desired version, edit the `yarn.lock` file and remove the lines corresponding to the package and the run `yarn osd bootstrap` to have the latest version of the package, that satisfies the range from `package.json`, added to `yarn.lock`.
```

Reviewer 2: A nested dep will not show up in the package.json; this section has to change.

Author: It could be in the resolution part right?

    ```
    Example: We have a vulnerable package foobar@1.x.y and 1.x.z is the fix. In package.json, we have foobar@^1.x.y which should update you to all future minor/patch versions, without incrementing the major version.

    Find foobar@1.x.y in yarn.lock and remove it.
    Run yarn osd bootstrap

>     ```

Reviewer 2: This is exactly what was said on top; i find it unnecessary.

Author: Will del it.

    - If package.json is not correct, we can add version in the resolutions [section](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/selective-version-resolutions/) for all the package sub-deps or specific package sub-dep. For more on version updates please see [Why](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/selective-version-resolutions/#toc-why-would-you-want-to-do-this) and [How](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/selective-version-resolutions/#toc-how-to-use-it) to upgrade.

    ```
    Example: If foobar@1.x exists for subdeps in yarn.lock file. Then edit the package.json file and add **/foobar@1.y in resolution section as shown below to enforce the 1.y.

    Add the package to resolution in package.json:
    'resolutions': { "**/foobar": "^1.y",
                     "**/foo": "^2.x" ,
                     "**/bar": "^3.k"}
    Then run: yarn install for updating yarn.lock file

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Instead of these 2 very big sections, IMO it would be better to just say
Step 1: remove the entry from lockfile and bootstrap; if a suitable version was installed, you can stop.
Step 2: use Yarn resolutions to require a specific range for the nested dependency. and then link to an actual commit.

Author: will modify

>     Please be aware of that fixing nested dependency can be tricky. Sometimes, bump the dependent package will auto bump all the nested dependencies which will solve multiple security vulnerabilities and provide a more maintainable code base.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Please be aware of that fixing nested dependencies can be tricky. Sometimes, bumping a parent package of the nested dependency can upgrade several of the nested dependencies at once to solve multiple security vulnerabilities and provide a more maintainable code base.
```

Author: will change

> - To backport the CVEs fix to previous versions, add backport label (ex: `backport 1.x`) to trigger auto backport. If auto backport fail, pls use the following steps to manually backport:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To backport a pull request for a CVE fix to previous versions of OpenSearch Dashboards, add the desired backport labels (ex: `backport 1.x`) to the PR. When the PR is merged, a workflow will attempt to backport the PR. If this backporting attempt fail, the PR will be updated with comments about the failure; follow the instructions in those comments to manually backport your changes which you can then use in a new PR.
```

>     - Identify the pull request you want to backport and the target backport version.
>     - Create a new local branch from the target version.
>     - Cherry-pick the changes from the pull request into the new branch. To do this, you can use the `git cherry-pick` command followed by the hash of the pull request commit. For example: `git cherry-pick 123456`.
>     - Resolve any conflicts. This step may require some manual intervention.
>     - Test the changes thoroughly.
>     - Push the new branch to the appropriate remote repository.
>     - Submit a new pull request to the target version for the backported changes.
> 
>     ```
>        Example: backport a pull request with hash 123 in main to 1.3
> 
>        1. Fetch the latest changes from upstream or whatever you name the remote upstream repo:
>        git pull upstream
> 
>        2. Create a new local branch from the target version:
>        git checkout -b backport-cve upstream/1.3
> 
>        3. Cherry pick the changes:
>        git cherry-pick 123
> 
>        4. Resolve any conflicts.
> 
>        5. Push to your origin forked repo:
>        git push -u origin backport-cve
> 
>        6. Submit a new pull request to 1.3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
These instructions could change; it would be best to tell users to follow the steps that would be provided to them in the PR.

Author: I will mention these steps are just for reference.

    ```

>     It's worth noting that backporting a pull request can be a complex process, and there may require additional steps depending on the changes involved and target branch. It's important to carefully review and test the changes to ensure they are applied correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    It's worth noting that backporting a pull request can be a complex process and depending on the changes involved, additional steps might be required to resolve conflicts. It's important to carefully review and test the changes to ensure they are compatible with the version of OpenSearch Dashboards in the target branch and that the changes are applied correctly.
```
